= Inventors in the field of electronics are individuals who possess the knowledge, intuition (
the ability to understand something immediately, without the need for conscious reasoning), creativity, and 
technical know-how to turn their ideas into real-life electrical gadgets. 

= basic passive components such as resistors, capacitors, inductors, and transformers.

= Discrete passive circuits include current-limiting networks, voltage dividers, filter circuits, attenuators, 
and so on.

= discrete active devices, which are built from semiconductor materials. These devices consist mainly of diodes
(one-way current-flow gates) and transistors (electrically controlled switches/amplifiers).

= discrete active/ passive circuits. Some of these circuits include rectifiers (ac-to-dc converters), amplifiers,
oscillators, modulators, mixers, and voltage regulators.

= Input devices (sensors) convert physical signals, such as sound, light, and pressure, into electrical signals 
that circuits can use. These devices include microphones, phototransistors, switches, keyboards, thermistors, 
strain gauges, generators, and antennas.

= Output devices convert electrical signals into physical signals. Output devices include lamps, LED and LCD 
displays, speakers, buzzers, motors (dc, servo, and stepper), solenoids, and antennas. These I/O devices
allow humans and circuits to communicate with one another.

= To make things easier on the circuit designer, manufacturers have created integrated circuits (ICs), which 
contain discrete circuits (like the ones mentioned in the previous paragraph) that are crammed onto a tiny chip 
of silicon. 

= ICs such as amplifiers and voltage regulators are referred to as analog devices, which means that they respond
to and produce signals of varying degrees of voltage.

= Digital circuits work with only two voltage states: high (such as 5 V) or low (such as 0 V). The reason for 
having only two voltage states has to do with the ease of processing data (numbers, symbols, and control information)
and storage.

= Some of these ICs are designed to perform :
  (1) logical operations on input information; (logic gate)
  (2) others are designed to count; (processor, counters)
  (3) while still others are designed to store information that can be retrieved later on.

= Digital ICs include logic gates, flip-flops, shift registers, counters, memories, processors, and so on. 

= In order for digital circuits to interact with analog circuits, special analog-to-digital (A/D) conversion circuits 
are needed to convert analog signals into strings of 1s and 0s. Likewise, digital-to-analog conversion circuits are
used to convert strings of 1s and 0s into analog signals.

