Permeability is a material's ability to allow fluids or gases to pass through it. It can also refer to a material's ability to become 
                  magnetized when exposed to an external magnetic field. 

How do you measure strong of the magnetic field pass through a core ?
    4.π.10⁻⁷ H/m means something like the vacuum core allow the magnetic field strong of 4π10⁻⁷ H is pass through per meter along the vacuum
    while soft iron core has 80×10⁻³ means the magnetic field strong of 80×10⁻³ is allow to be passed to the soft iron core per meter along the soft iron 

In electromagnetism, permeability is the measure of magnetization produced in a material in response to an applied magnetic field. 

The permeability constant (µ₀), also known as the magnetic constant or the permeability of free space, is a measure of the amount
of resistance encountered when forming a magnetic field in a classical vacuum

PERMEABILITY OF ELECTROMAGNETS
If cores of different materials with the same physical dimensions are used in the electromagnet, the strength of the magnet will vary in relation
to the core material being used. This variation in the magnetic strength is due to the number of flux lines passing through the central core. if
the magnetic material has a high permeability then the flux lines can easily be created and pass through the central core and permeability (μ) 
and it is a measure of the ease by which the core can be magnetised.

The numerical constant given for the permeability of a vacuum is given as: μ₀ = 4.π.10-7 H/m with the relative permeability of free space (a vacuum)
generally given a value of one. It is this value that is used as a reference in all calculations dealing with permeability and all materials have 
their own specific values of permeability.

The problem with using just the permeability of different iron, steel or alloy cores is that the calculations involved can become very large so it
is more convenient to define the materials by their relative permeability.

RELATIVE PERMEABILITY 
Relative Permeability, symbol μᵣ is the product of μ (absolute permeability) and μₒ the permeability of free space and is given as.
         
         μ
    μᵣ = ――
         μ₀ 

Materials that have a permeability slightly less than that of free space (a vacuum) and have a weak, negative susceptibility to magnetic fields are
said to be Diamagnetic in nature such as: water, copper, silver and gold. Those materials with a permeability slightly greater than that of free 
space and themselves are only slightly attracted by a magnetic field are said to be Paramagnetic in nature such as: gases, magnesium, and tantalum.

When ferromagnetic materials are used in the core the use of relative permeability to define the field strength gives a better idea of the strength
of the magnetic field for the different types of materials used. For example, a vacuum and air have a relative permeability of one and for an iron
core it is around 500, so we can say that the field strength of an iron core is 500 times stronger than an equivalent hollow air coil and this
relationship is much easier to understand than 0.628×10-3 H/m, ( 500.4.π.10-7).

While, air may have a permeability of just one, some ferrite and permalloy(a nickel-iron alloy that is used in electrical and electronic equipment)
materials can have a permeability of 10,000 or more. However, there are limits to the amount of magnetic field strength that can be obtained from a
single coil as the core becomes heavily saturated as the magnetic flux increases and this is looked at in the next tutorial about B-H curves and
Hysteresis.

MAGNETIC HYSTERESIS 
Ferromagnetic materials when subjected(diberikan/didekatkan) to a temporary magnetic field can exhibit a lag or delay in the demagnetisation process
due to the material from which they are made. This lag or delay of a magnetic material is known commonly as magnetic hysteresis.

Previously, the relative permeability, symbol μᵣ was defined as the ratio of the absolute permeability μ and the permeability of free space μₒ(a vacuum)
and this was given as a constant. However, the relationship between the flux density, B and the magnetic field strength, H can be defined by the fact 
that the relative permeability, μᵣ is not a constant but a function of the magnetic field intensity(strength) thereby giving magnetic flux density as:
    
     B = μ H

as the magnetic field strength increase, the flux density will increase too (proporsional)

Then the magnetic flux density in the material will be increased by a larger factor as a result of its relative permeability for the material compared
to the magnetic flux density in vacuum, μₒH and for an air-cored coil this relationship is given as:

    B
    ― = μₒ
    H

So for ferromagnetic materials the ratio of flux density to field strength ( B/H ) is not constant but varies with flux density. However, for air cored
coils or any non-magnetic medium core such as woods or plastics, this ratio can be considered as a constant and this constant is known as μₒ, the 
permeability of free space, ( μₒ = 4.π.10⁻⁷ H/m ).

By plotting values of flux density, ( B ) against the field strength, ( H ) we can produce a set of curves called Magnetisation Curves, Magnetic 
Hysteresis Curves or more commonly B-H Curves for each type of core material used as shown(Image12.PNG)