= Electromagnetism is the force produced when an electrical current flows through a simple conductor such as a piece of wire or cable.
= magnets can be made from ferromagnetic materials which attract (and repel) other materials, mainly metals. Magnetism is the force 
  exerted(digunakan) by magnets as they attract or repel each other.
= A small magnetic field is created around the conductor with the direction of this magnetic field with regards(relating/concerning) 
  to its “North” and “South” poles being determined by the direction of the current flowing through the conductor.

= Magnets can be found in a natural state in the form of a magnetic ore(biji), with the two main types being Magnetite also called 
  “iron oxide”, (FE₃O₄) and Lodestone, also called “leading stone”. If these two natural magnets are suspended(digantung) from a piece
  of string, they will take up a position in-line with the Earth’s magnetic field always pointing north. (Ex: COMPASS'S NEEDLE)
= There are basically two forms of magnetism, “Permanent Magnets” and “Temporary Magnets”, with the type being used dependant upon its application.
= Magnetic material in the non-magnetic state has its molecular structure in the form of loose magnetic chains or individual tiny magnets loosely
  arranged in a random pattern. The overall effect of this type of arrangement results in zero or very weak magnetism as this haphazard(sembarangan/berantakan)
  arrangement of each molecular magnet tends to neutralise its neighbour. (Image1.PNG)
= When the material is Magnetised this random arrangement of the molecules changes and the tiny unaligned and random molecular magnets become 
  “lined-up” in such a way that they produce a series magnetic arrangement. This idea of the molecular alignment of ferromagnetic materials is
  known as Weber’s Theory and is illustrated below. (Image1.PNG)

MAGNETIC MOLECULE ALIGNMENT OF A PIECE OF IRON AND A MAGNET
Weber’s theory is based on the fact that all atoms have magnetic properties due to the spinning action of the atoms electrons. Groups of atoms join 
together so that their magnetic fields are all rotating in the same direction. Magnetic materials are composed of groups of tiny magnets at a molecular
level around the atoms, and a magnetised material will have most of its tiny magnets lined up in one direction only to produce a north pole in one 
direction and a south pole in the other direction.

Likewise, a material that has its tiny molecular magnets pointing in all directions will have its molecular magnets neutralised by its neighbouring magnet,
thereby neutralising any magnetic effect. These areas of molecular magnets are called “domains”.

Any magnetic material will produce a magnetic field itself which depends on the degree of alignment of magnetic domains in the material set up by orbital 
and spinning electrons. This degree of alignment can be specified by a quantity known as magnetisation, M.

In an unmagnetised material(loose magnetic domain), M = 0, but some of the domains remain aligned over small regions in the material once the magnetic field
is removed(when you have a magnet bar, and you give the other magnetic material such as iron for example the magnet bar, some domains inside the iron will
will remain aligned). The effect of applying a magnetising force to the material is to align some of the domains to produce a non-zero magnetisation value.

Once the magnetising force has been removed, the magnetism within the material will either remain or decay away quiet quickly depending on the magnetic 
material being used. This ability of a material to retain its magnetism is called Retentivity.

Materials which are required to retain their magnetism will have a fairly high retentivity and as such are used to make permanent magnets, while those 
materials required to lose their magnetism quickly such as soft iron cores for relays and solenoids will have a very low retentivity.

MAGNETIC FLUX
All magnets, no matter what their shape, have two regions called magnetic poles with the magnetism both in and around a magnetic circuit producing a 
definite chain(hubungan/talian) of organised and balanced pattern of invisible lines of flux around it. These lines of flux are collectively referred to as
the “magnetic field” of the magnet. The shape of this magnetic field is more intense in some parts than others with the area of the magnet that has the 
greatest magnetism being called “poles”. At each end of a magnet is a pole.

These lines of flux (called a vector field) can not be seen by the naked eye, but they can be seen visually by using iron fillings sprinkled (Image3.PNG)
onto a sheet of paper or by using a small compass to trace them out. Magnetic poles are always present in pairs, there is always a region of the magnet 
called the North-pole and there is always an opposite region called the South-pole.

Magnetic fields are always shown visually as lines of force that give a definite pole at each end of the material where the flux lines are more dense and
concentrated. The lines which go to make up a magnetic field showing the direction and intensity are called Lines of Force or more commonly “Magnetic Flux”
and are given the Greek symbol, Phi ( Φ ) as shown below.

LINES OF FORCE FROM A BAR MAGNETS MAGNETIC FIELD (Image2.PNG)

As shown in Image2.PNG, the magnetic field is strongest near to the poles of the magnet where the lines of flux are more closely spaced. The general 
direction for the magnetic flux flow is from the North ( N ) to the South ( S ) pole. In addition, these magnetic lines form closed loops that leave at
the north pole of the magnet and enter at the south pole. Magnetic poles are always in pairs.

However, magnetic flux does not actually flow from the north to the south pole or flow anywhere for that matter as magnetic flux is a static region around
a magnet in which the magnetic force exists. In other words magnetic flux does not flow or move it is just there and is not influenced by gravity. Some
important facts emerge when plotting lines of force:

    Lines of force NEVER cross.
    Lines of force are CONTINUOUS.
    Lines of force always form individual CLOSED LOOPS around the magnet.
    Lines of force have a definite DIRECTION from North to South.
    Lines of force that are close together indicate a STRONG magnetic field.
    Lines of force that are farther apart indicate a WEAK magnetic field.

Magnetic forces attract and repel like electric forces and when two lines of force are brought close together the interaction between the two magnetic 
fields causes one of two things to occur:

    1. When adjacent poles are the same, (north-north or south-south) they REPEL each other. (Image4-repel.PNG)
    2. When adjacent poles are not the same, (north-south or south-north) they ATTRACT each other. (Image4-attraction.PNG)

MAGNETIC FIELD OF LIKE AND UNLIKE POLES (Image4.PNG)
When plotting magnetic field lines with a compass it will be seen that the lines of force are produced in such a way "as to"(about, regarding, or 
according to) give a definite pole at each end of the magnet where the lines of force leave the North pole and re-enter at the South pole. Magnetism can
be destroyed by heating or  hammering the magnetic material, but cannot be destroyed or isolated by simply breaking the magnet into two pieces.

So if you take a normal bar magnet and break it into two pieces, you do not have two halves of a magnet but instead each broken piece will somehow
have its own North pole and a South pole. If you take one of those pieces and break it into two again, each of the smaller pieces will have a North
pole and a South pole and so on. No matter how small the pieces of the magnet become, each piece will still have a North pole and a South pole, crazy!

Then in order for us to make use of magnetism in electrical or electronic calculations, it is necessary to define what are the various aspects of magnetism.