The set of magnetisation curves, M above(Image12.PNG) represents an example of the relationship between B and H for soft-iron and steel cores but every type
of core material will have its own set of magnetic hysteresis curves. You may have noticed that the flux density increases in proportion to the field 
strength until it reaches a certain value where it can not increase any more becoming almost level and constant even though the field strength continues to
increase.

This is because there is a limit to the amount of flux density that can be generated by the core as all the magnetic domains in the iron become perfectly 
aligned. Thus any additional increase will have no effect on the value of M. The point on the graph where the flux density reaches its limit is called
Magnetic Saturation also known as Saturation of the Core. In our simple example above(Image12.PNG) the saturation point of the steel curve begins at about
3000 ampere-turns per metre.

Saturation occurs because as we remember from the previous Magnetism tutorial which included Weber’s theory, the random haphazard(sembarangan) arrangement
of the molecule structure within the core material changes as the tiny molecular magnets within the material become “lined-up”.

As the magnetic field strength, ( H ) increases these molecular magnets become more and more aligned until they reach perfect alignment producing maximum 
flux density and any increase in the magnetic field strength due to an increase in the electrical current flowing through the coil will have little or no
effect.

RETENTIVITY
Lets assume that we have an electromagnetic coil with a high field strength due to the current flowing through it, and that the ferromagnetic core material
has reached its saturation point, maximum flux density. If we now open a switch and remove the magnetising current flowing through the coil we would expect
the magnetic field around the coil to disappear as the magnetic flux reduced to zero.

However, the magnetic flux does not completely disappear as the electromagnetic core material still retains some of its magnetism even when the current has
stopped flowing in the coil. This ability for a coil to retain some of its magnetism within the core after the magnetisation process has stopped is called
Retentivity or remanence, while the amount of flux density still remaining in the core is called Residual Magnetism, Bᵣ.

The reason for this that some of the tiny molecular magnets do not return to a completely random pattern and still point in the direction of the original
magnetising field giving them a sort of “memory”. Some ferromagnetic materials have a high retentivity (magnetically hard) making them excellent for 
producing permanent magnets.

While other ferromagnetic materials have low retentivity (magnetically soft) making them ideal for use in electromagnets, solenoids or relays. One way to
reduce this residual flux density to zero is by reversing the direction of the current flowing through the coil, thereby making the value of H, the magnetic
field strength negative. This effect is called a Coercive Force, Hc.

If this reverse current is increased further the flux density will also increase in the reverse direction until the ferromagnetic core reaches saturation 
again but in the reverse direction from before. Reducing the magnetising current, i once again to zero will produce a similar amount of residual magnetism
but in the reverse direction. (Image13.PNG)

Then by constantly changing the direction of the magnetising current through the coil from a positive direction to a negative direction, as would be the 
case in an AC supply, a Magnetic Hysteresis loop of the ferromagnetic core can be produced. (Image13.PNG)

MAGNETIC HYSTERESIS LOOP
The Magnetic Hysteresis loop above(Image13), shows the behaviour of a ferromagnetic core graphically as the relationship between B and H is non-linear.
Starting with an unmagnetised core both B and H will be at zero, point 0 on the magnetisation curve.

If the magnetisation current, i is increased in a positive direction to some value the magnetic field strength H increases linearly with i and the flux
density B will also increase as shown by the curve from point 0 to point a as it heads towards saturation.

Now if the magnetising current in the coil is reduced to zero, the magnetic field circulating around the core also reduces to zero. However, the coils
magnetic flux will not reach zero due to the residual magnetism present within the core and this is shown on the curve from point a to point b.

To reduce the flux density at point b to zero we need to reverse the current flowing through the coil. The magnetising force which must be applied "to
null"(untuk mengosongkan/menghilangkan) the residual flux density is called a “Coercive Force”. This coercive force reverses the magnetic field 
re-arranging the molecular magnets until the core becomes unmagnetised at point c.
(You just remove the magnetise properties, but the strength magnetic still there)

An increase in this reverse current causes the core to be magnetised in the opposite direction and increasing this magnetisation current further will
cause the core to reach its saturation point but in the opposite direction, point d on the curve.

This point is symmetrical to point b. If the magnetising current is reduced again to zero the residual magnetism present in the core will be equal to
the previous value but in reverse at point e.

Again reversing the magnetising current flowing through the coil this time into a positive direction will cause the magnetic flux to reach zero, 
point f on the curve and as before increasing the magnetisation current further in a positive direction will cause the core to reach saturation at point a.

Since a coercive force must be applied to overcome this residual magnetism, work must be done in closing the hysteresis loop(to null the flux density) with
the energy being used being dissipated as heat in the magnetic material. This heat is known as hysteresis loss, the amount of loss depends on the material’s
value of coercive force.

By adding additive’s to the iron metal such as silicon, materials with a very small coercive force can be made that have a very narrow hysteresis loop. 
Materials with narrow hysteresis loops are easily magnetised and demagnetised and known as soft magnetic materials.

