THE MAGNITUDE OF MAGNETISM
We now know that the lines of force or more commonly the magnetic flux around a magnetic material is given the Greek symbol, Phi, ( Φ ) with
the unit of flux being the Weber, ( Wb ) after Wilhelm Eduard Weber. But the number of lines of force within a given unit area is called the
“Flux Density” and since flux ( Φ ) is measured in ( Wb ) and area ( A ) in metres squared, (m²), flux density is therefore measured in 
Webers/Metre² or ( Wb/m² ) and is given the symbol B.

However, when referring to flux density in magnetism, flux density is given the unit of the Tesla after Nikola Tesla so therefore one Wb/m2 is
equal to one Tesla, 1Wb/m2 = 1T. Flux density is proportional to the lines of force and inversely proportional to area so we can define Flux
Density as:

                                     Magnetic Flux, (Weber)            ϕ 
    Magnetic Flux Density, (Tesla) = ――――――――――――――――――――――――       B = ――――
                                           Area, (m²)                  A

It is important to remember that all calculations for flux density are done in the same units, e.g., flux in webers, area in m² and flux 
density in Teslas. (Example1.txt)

Therefore, it is necessary to establish a relationship between current flowing through the conductor and the resultant magnetic field produced 
around it by this flow of current allowing us to define the relationship that exists between Electricity and Magnetism in the form of 
Electromagnetism.

(READ THE ELECTROMAGNETISM)
When dealing with magnetism in electrical circuits it must be remembered that one Tesla is the density of a magnetic field such that a 
conductor carrying 1 ampere at right angles to the magnetic field experiences a force of one newton-metre length on it and this will be
demonstrated in the next tutorial about Electromagnetism. 

ELECTROMAGNETISM
The force of electromagnetism is the basic force for all the other forces governing the interaction between atoms and molecules producing
the property we know as electrical charge.

While permanent magnets produce a good and sometimes very strong static magnetic field, in some applications the strength of this magnetic
field is still too weak or we need to be able to control the amount of magnetic flux that is present. So in order to produce a much 
stronger and more controllable magnetic field we need to use electricity.

By using coils of wire wrapped or wound around a soft magnetic material such as an iron core we can produce very strong electromagnets 
for use in many different types of electrical applications. This use of coils of wire produces a relationship between electricity and
magnetism that gives us another form of magnetism called Electromagnetism.

Electromagnetism is produced when an electrical current flows through a simple conductor such as a length of wire or cable, and as current
passes along the whole of the conductor then a magnetic field is created along the whole of the conductor. The small magnetic field created
around the conductor has a definite direction with both the “North” and “South” poles produced being determined by the direction of the
electrical current flowing through the conductor.

The direction of rotation of this magnetic field is governed by the direction of the current flowing through the conductor with the 
corresponding magnetic field produced being stronger near to the center of the current carrying conductor. This is because the path length
of the loops being "greater the further away"(semakin jauh) from the conductor resulting in weaker flux lines as shown in Image5.PNG

MAGNETIC FIELD AROUND A CONDUCTOR
A simple way to determine the direction of the magnetic field around the conductor is to consider screwing an ordinary wood screw into a 
sheet of paper. As the wood screw enters the paper the rotational action is CLOCKWISE, so the only part of the screw that would be visible
above the paper is the actual screw head.

If the wood screw is of the pozidriv or philips type head design, the cross on the head would be visible. It is this cross head which is
used to indicate the direction of current flowing “into” the paper and away from the observer.

Likewise, the action of removing the screw is the reverse, anti or counter-clockwise. As the current enters from the top it therefore leaves
the underside of the paper. The only part of the wood screw which is visible from below is the tip or point of the screw. It is this point
which is used to indicate current flowing “out of” the paper and towards the observer.

Then the physical action of screwing the wood screw in and out of the paper indicates the direction of conventional current flow in the 
conductor and therefore, the direction of rotation of the electromagnetic field around it as shown below. This concept is known generally as
the Right Hand Screw Action.

THE RIGHT HAND SCREW ACTION (Image7.PNG)
Another more familiar concept which determines both the direction of current flow and the resulting direction of the magnetic flux around the
conductor is called the “Left Hand Rule”. The direction can be deduced by holding the current carrying conductor in your left hand with the 
thumb extended pointing in the direction of the electron flow from negative to positive. (Image6.PNG)

The position of the fingers laid across and around the conductor will now be pointing in the direction of the generated magnetic lines of force
as shown. If the direction of the electron flowing through the conductor is reversed, the left hand will need to be placed onto the other side
of the conductor with the thumb pointing in the new direction of the electron current flow.

This “Left Hand Rule” can also be used to determine the magnetic direction of the poles in an electromagnetic coil. This time, the fingers point
in the direction of the electron flow from negative to positive while the extended thumb indicating the direction of the north pole. There is a
variation on this rule called the “right hand rule” which is based on so-called conventional current flow, (positive to negative).

Consider when a single straight piece of wire is bent into the form of a single loop as shown Image8.PNG. Although the electric current is flowing
in the same direction through the whole length of the wire conductor, it will be flowing in opposite directions through the paper. This is because
the current leaves the paper on one side and enters the paper on the other therefore a clockwise field and an anticlockwise field are produced next
to each other across the sheet of paper.
