ELECTROMAGNETISM AROUND A LOOP (Image8.PNG)
The resulting lines of force generated by the current flowing through the loop oppose each other in the space between the two conductors where the two
like poles meet thereby deforming the lines of force around each conductor as shown (Image9.PNG).

However, the distortion(penyimpangan) of the magnetic flux inbetween the two conductors results in an intensity(ukuran atau tingkat kekuatan dari suatu
hal) of the magnetic field at the middle junction were the lines of force become closer together. The resulting interaction between the two like fields
produces a mechanical force between the two conductors as they try to repel away from each other. In an electrical machine this repelling of these two
magnetic fields produces motion.

However, as the conductors cannot move, the two magnetic fields therefore help each other by generating a north and a south pole along this line of
interaction(How? If you look at the Image9.PNG, rotate to 90° to the right/left you'll see a magnet). This results in the magnetic field being strongest
in the middle between the two conductors. The intensity of the magnetic field around the conductor is proportional to the distance from the conductor
and by the amount of current flowing through it.

The magnetic field generated around a straight length of current-carrying wire is very weak even with a high current passing through it. However, if
several loops of the wire are wound together along the same axis producing a coil of wire, the resultant magnetic field will become even more 
concentrated and stronger than that of just a single loop. This produces an electromagnetic coil more commonly called a Solenoid.

ELECTROMAGNET 
The electromagnet is a type of temporary magnet in which its magnetic field is produced by electric current and to concentrate the magnetic field, the 
wire of an electromagnet is wound into a coil.

The magnetic field that this produces is stretched out in a form of a bar magnet giving a distinctive north and south pole with the flux being 
proportional to the amount of current flowing in the coil. If additional layers of wire are wound upon the same coil with the same current flowing,
the magnetic field strength will be increased. (Image10.PNG)

It can be seen from this therefore that the amount of flux available in any given magnetic circuit is directly proportional to the current flowing 
through it and the number of turns of wire within the coil. This relationship is called Magneto Motive Force or m.m.f. and is defined as:

    Magneto Motive Force, (m.m.f) = I×N ampere turns

Magneto Motive Force is expressed as a current, I flowing through a coil of N turns. The magnetic field strength of an electromagnet is therefore 
determined by the ampere turns of the coil with the more turns of wire in the coil the greater will be the strength of the magnetic field.

THE MAGNETIC STRENGTH OF THE ELECTROMAGNET 
The intensity of magnetic field around the conductor is proportional to the distance from the conductor with the strongest point being next to the
conductor and progressively getting weaker further away from the conductor. In the case of a single straight conductor, the current flowing and the
distance from it are factors which govern the intensity of the field.

The formula therefore for calculating the “Magnetic Field Strength”, H sometimes called “Magnetising Force” of a long straight current carrying 
conductor is derived from the current flowing through it and the distance from it (Image11-RIGHT-HAND-RULE.PNG)

    For a Coil of Wire:
            
            I × N
        H = ――――――
              L
    
    For a Straight Conductor:

              I
        H = ―――――
             2πr

Where:

    H = the strength of the magnetic field in ampere-turns/metre, At/m
    N = the number of turns of the coil
    I = the current flowing through the coil in amps, A
    L = the length of the coil in metres, m

Then to summarise, the strength or intensity of a coils magnetic field depends on the following factors.
    The number of turns of wire within the coil.
    The amount of current flowing in the coil.
    The type of core material.

The magnetic field strength of the electromagnet also depends upon the type of core material being used as the main purpose of the core is to
concentrate the magnetic flux in a well defined and predictable path. So far only air cored (hollow) coils have been considered but the introduction
of other materials into the core (the centre of the coil) has a very large controlling effect on the strength of the magnetic field.

If the material is non-magnetic for example wood, for calculation purposes it can be regarded as free space as they have very low values of 
permeability. If however, the core material is made from a Ferromagnetic material such as iron, nickel, cobalt or any mixture of their alloys, a
considerable difference in the flux density around the coil will be observed.

Ferromagnetic materials are those which can be magnetised and are usually made from soft iron, steel or various nickel alloys. The introduction of 
this type of material into a magnetic circuit has the effect of concentrating the magnetic flux making it more concentrated and dense and amplifies
the magnetic field created by the current in the coil.

We can prove this by wrapping a coil of wire around a large soft-iron nail and connecting it to a battery as shown. This simple classroom experiment
allows us to pick-up a large quantity of clips or pins and we can make the electromagnet stronger by adding more turns to the coil. This degree of
intensity of the magnetic field either by a hollow air core or by introducing ferromagnetic materials into the core is called Magnetic Permeability.