The superposition theorem is an important concept in electronics that is useful whenever a linear 
circuit contains more than one source. It can be stated as follows:
    Superposition theorem: The current in a branch of a linear circuit is equal to the sum of the
                           currents produced by each source, with the other sources set equal to zero
Be aware that the superposition should not be applied to nonlinear circuits.

It is important to make clear what it means to set sources equal to zero when interpreting the 
superposition theorem. A source may be a voltage source or a current source. If the source is a voltage
source, to set it to zero means that the points in the circuit where its terminals were connected must
be kept at the same potential. The only way to do this is to replace the voltage source with a conductor,
thus creating a short circuit. If the source is a current source, to set it to zero means to simply remove
it and leave the terminals open, thus creating an open circuit. A short circuit causes the voltage to be
zero; an open circuit causes the current to be zero.

In Image1.PNG, we will analyze the circuit using the superposition theorem. The circuit contains two 
resistors, a voltage source, and a current source.

First we remove the current source (create an open circuit at its terminals), as shown in Image1.PNG(b). 
The new current through R2 due to the voltage source alone is just VA divided by the equivalent resistance:

                Vₐ
        I₂₁ = ―――――――
              R₁ + R₂

This current is called the partial current in branch 2 due to source 1. Next, the voltage source is removed
and set to zero by replacing it with a conductor (we short it); see Image1.PNG(c). The resulting circuit is
a current divider, and the resulting partial current is given by: 

                IbR₁
        I₂₂ = ―――――――――
               R₁ + R₂ 

Applying the superposition, we add the partial current to get the total current:

                            Vₐ - IbR₁
        I₂ = I₂₁ + I₂₂ = ―――――――――――――――
                            R₁ + R₂

The current through R₁ could have been determined in a similar manner, with the following result:
        
                    Vₐ + IbR₂
            I₁ = ―――――――――――――――
                    R₁ + R₂

The superposition theorem is an important tool whose theory makes possible complex impedance analysis in linear,
sinusoidally driven circuits—a subject we will cover a bit later. The superposition is also an underlying 
mechanism that makes possible two important circuit theorems: Thevenin’s theorem and Norton’s theorem. These two
theorems, which use some fairly ingenious(pandai/ulung) tricks, are much more practical to use than the superposition. Though
you will seldom use the superposition directly, it is important to know that it is the base upon which many other
circuit analysis tools rest.

for the explanation you can see the Examples