Next, we wish to see what happens when we apply a voltage across the conductor—say, by attaching
a thick copper wire across a battery. When we do this, our randomly moving  free electrons all
experience a force pointing toward the positive end of the wire due to the electric field set up
within the wire. The actual influence this force has on the motion(gerakan) of the random free 
electrons is small—the thermal velocity is so  large that it is difficult to change the momentum
of the electrons. What you get is a slightly parabolic deviation in path, as shown in Image1.png

If you wonder, why thermal velocity when it's get larger it can't change the momentum(daya gerak) of
the electrons?

(answer1):
Drift velocity is defined as the average velocity with which a free electron reach the positive 
terminal of the external electric field applied to the conductor.On the way, the electron has to face
collisions with the positive ions of the conductor. When temperature of the conductor is increased (thermal velocity
is increased); amplitudes of oscillations of positive ions increase, which in turn makes an electron to
face more and more collisions with the positive ions of the conductor, resulting decrease in its drift
velocity.Hence an increase in temperature implies decrease in the drift velocity of free electrons in a
metallic conductor and vice versa.Obviously, increase in temperature will also increase the resistivity
of the conductor.

(answer2):
As Rafael explained in his answer the drift velocity remains constant over temperature for a fixed 
current because this is the definition of current - that many electrons per second. This means that 
as the temperature has increased the voltage must have has increased too to maintain the same current.
That voltage increase has created a stronger electric field that have accelerated the electrons and 
ended up with compensating(memberikan ganti rugi) for the drift velocity that would have otherwise 
decreased. You can now realize taht if one maintains the same voltage across the conductor then the
drift velocity will decrease because the atoms in the conductors vibrate more intensely and the 
electrons (or holes) have a higher probability to collide with and scatter from these atoms.

(answer3):
The drift velocity is the average velocity of the ensemble(grup) of electrons travelling in the solid.
Individual electrons are accelerated by the electric field until they scatter in a collision that 
randomizes their velocity. They accelerate in the direction of the field between collisions and then
the collisions, on average, cause them to lose all of their momentum; sometimes they scatter forward,
sometimes backward… in any direction randomly. This is called a relaxation mechanism and is encountered
in many other situations.

Image1.PNG:
(a) Simplistic view of an electron randomly moving through a copper lattice, rebounding off lattice atoms
    and impurities.
(b) An electron collides frequently with the ions and impurities in a metal and scatters randomly. In an
    electric field, the electron picks up a small component of velocity opposite the field. The differences 
    in the paths are exaggerated(berlebihan). The electron’s path in an electric field is slightly parabolic.
(c) Model illustrating current density, drift velocity, charge density, thermal velocity, and current.

Normally, the field present in the wire would create a net acceleration component in the direction of the 
force; however, the constant collisions electrons experience create a drag force, similar to the drag 
experienced by a parachute. 

            
            Conductor
           __________________________________________________
            • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
            • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
            • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
            • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
            • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 
           --------------------------------------------------

(initially in room temperature and not applied voltage, the electrons are moving. when we applied the voltage all
of those electron are move in direction to higher potential (positive terminal). When moving, electron collide with
positive ions or the electron itself. in collide with another electron, the electron that get collided also get accelerated.
the one that colliding to another electron will get dragged like the experience when you open a parachute)

The net effect is an average group velocity referred to as the drift velocity vⅆ. Remarkably, this velocity is surprisingly
small. For example, the voltage applied to a 12- gauge copper wire to yield a 0.100- A current will result in a drift velocity
of about 0.002 mm per second! The drift velocity is related, determined by

    vⅆ  = J/(ρₑe)


where J is the current density—the current flowing through an area (J = I/A), 
      ρₑ is the free- electron density in the material, and 
      e is the charge of an electron. 

Image3.PNG in 2.4 shows free- electron densities for various materials. As you can see, the drift velocity varies with current
and diameter of the conductor.

pondering = mempertimbangkan dengan hati hati

The drift velocity is so slow, only fractions of a millimeter per second, that it is worth pondering how a measurable current
can even flow. For example, what happens when you flip the switch on a flashlight? Of course, we don’t have to wait hours for
electrons to move down the conductors from the battery. When we throw the switch, the electric field of the incoming electron has
a repulsive effect on its neighbor within the wire. This neighbor then moves away toward another neighbor, creating a chain of 
interactions that propagates through the material at near the speed of light. (See Image2.PNG.) This reaction, however, really isn’t
the speed of light, but a fraction less, depending on the medium. The free electrons spreading throughout the conductor all start
moving at once in response—those nearest the switch, as well as those nearest the light filament or LED. A similar effect occurs in
fluid flow, as when you turn on a garden hose. Because if the hose is already full of water, the outflow starts immediately. The 
force of the water at the faucet end is quickly transmitted all along the hose, and the water at the open end of the hose flows 
almost at the moment the faucet is opened.

In the case of alternating current, the field reverses directions in a sinusoidal fashion, causing the drift velocity component of
electrons to swish back and forth. If the alternating current has a frequency of 60 Hz, the velocity component would be vibrating back
and forth 60 times a second. If our maximum drift velocity during an ac cycle is 0.002 mm/s, we could roughly determine that the 
distance between maximum swings in the drift distance would be about 0.00045 mm. Of course, this doesn’t mean that electrons are fixed
in an oscillatory position. It means only that the drift displacement component of electrons is—if there is such a notion. Recall that
an electron’s overall motion is quite random and its actual displacement quite large, due to the thermal effects.

  
if you wondering how the author get to 0,00045 mm, that's wrong answer. you can get that answer using formula that you mightn't be
encounter since the formula is so long and tiredly.