= Look at the Image1 and Image2

(a) Copper nucleus composed of protons and neutrons held together by nuclear forces that is roughly
    137 times stronger than the electromagnetic force. 

(b) Copper atoms, as viewed by the classic planetary model, consisting of valance electrons held in
    orbit by electric forces. Quantum mechanics is required to explain why electrons exist in discrete 
    energy levels, and why they don’t fall into the nucleus or radiate electromagnetic energy as they orbit. 

(c) Copper lattice has a face- centered cubic packing arrangement. 

(d) Scanning tunneling electron microscope (STM) image of copper 100, courtesy of Institut für Allgemeine
    Physik, TU Wien. 

(e) Ball packing model of lattice, showing irregularities in lattice geometry, partly caused by impurities
    (other kinds of atoms). 

(f) Lattice view showing that lattice atoms vibrate due to external thermal interactions as well as 
    interactions with free electrons. Free electrons move about randomly, at varying speeds and directions, 
    colliding with other electrons and lattice ions. Under normal conditions, they do not leave the
    surface of the metal.

For copper, as well as other metals, the bonding mechanism that holds everything together is referred to as
metallic bonding, where outermost valence electrons from the metal atoms form a “cloud of free electrons” 
which fill the space between the metal ions (positively charged atoms missing an electron that became “free”
—see the planetary model in Image1.png point (b)). This cloud of free electrons acts as a glue, holding the
lattice metal ions together.

Each free electron within the cloud of free electrons moves about in random directions and speeds, colliding
and rebounding “off” metal ions and other imperfections (impurities in lattice and grain boundary transitions,
etc.). It is important to realize that this is occurring in a chunk of copper, at room temperature, without
any applied voltage.

According to what’s called the free- electron model—a classical model that treats free electrons as a gas of
noninteracting charges—there is approximately one free electron per copper atom, giving a copper conductor a
free electron concentration of 
        
        ρₙ  = 8.5 × 10²⁸   electrons/m³. 

Thermal velocity: When a conductor is not connected to any battery, free electrons are said to move due to 
their temperature & hence the name. 

This model predicts that, under normal conditions (a piece of copper just sitting there at room temperature),
the thermal velocity v of electrons (or root- mean- square speed) within copper is about
        
        120 km/s (1.2 × 10⁵  m/s), 

but depends on temperature. The average distance an electron travels before it collides with something, called
the mean free path λ, is about 
        
        0.000003 mm (2.9 × 10−⁹ m), 

with the average time between collisions τ of roughly 
        
        0.000000000000024 s (2.4 × 10−¹⁴ s). 

The free- electron model is qualitatively correct in many respects, but  isn’t as accurate as models based on 
quantum mechanics. (The speed, path, and time are related by v = λ/τ.)

NOTE:
The Fermi velocity is a measure of the speed at which electrons move within a material at the Fermi energy.
Fermi energy is the energy difference between the highest and lowest occupied single-particle states in a 
quantum system of non-interacting fermions (Fermions include protons, neutrons, electrons, neutrinos, and 
quarks) at a temperature of absolute zero.

In quantum mechanics, electrons obey velocity- distribution laws based on quantum physics, and the movement of
electrons depends on these quantum ideas. It requires that we treat electrons as though they were waves (you
can imagine sea water) scattering from the lattice structure of the copper. The quantum view shows the thermal
speed (now called Fermi velocity vF) of a free electron to be faster than that predicted by the free- electron
model, now around 
    
    1.57 × 10⁶ m/s,

and contrarily, it is essentially independent of temperature. In addition, the quantum model predicts a larger 
mean free path, now around 

    3.9 × 10−⁸ m, 

which is independent of temperature. The quantum view happens to be the  accepted view, since it gives answers
that match more precisely with experimental data. Image3 shows the Fermi velocities of electrons for various
metals.

The only way to eject electrons is through special processes, such as thermionic emission, field emission, 
secondary emission, and photoelectric emission.