If you don't get the meaning of the text for this section, go to the QuantumPhysics folder
first, then read this section again.

What is the microscopic explanation for these (Image1 and Image2 in 2.5.2) differences?
The answer to this question rests upon the quantum nature of electrons. In classical physics
the energy of an electron in a metal can take on any value—it is said the energy values form a
continuum. (Here, electron energy is considered zero at infinite distance from the nucleus and
becomes more negative in energy closer to the nucleus, relative to the zero reference state. 
Negative energy infers that there is electric attraction between the positive nucleus and the
electron—it is electric potential energy.). However,a a quantum description of electrons in 
metals shows that the energy values of electrons are quantized, taking on discrete values. This
comes from the wavelike nature of electrons—analogous to standing waves on strings existing only
at discrete frequencies (≣). Image1.PNG shows an energy diagram illustrating the possible energy
levels of an electron (ignoring lattice influences). The diagram illustrates only the possible
energy levels—electrons are not necessarily in each level.

When a set of atoms forms a regular background lattice(▦), the possible energy values of the electrons
are altered even further. We still have discrete energy regions, called allowed bands, but we now
get what are called energy gaps. Energy gaps are forbidden regions to the electron, and represent
regions where no traveling wave (electron) can exist when placed in the periodic electric potential
of the metal’s positive lattice ions. These gaps are quite large in the scale of atomic physics—within
electron- volts range. Again, energy levels presented in the band diagram specify only possible values
of electron energies—they may or may not be occupied.

Now, quantum physics has an interesting property, called the Pauli exclusion principle, which has a 
critical role(peran penting) in determining the properties of materials. The Pauli exclusion principle
says that no two electrons in an atom can be in the same quantum state. Now, if we consider a solid 
that has many free electrons, which is in an equilibrium state, electrons fill the lowest energy levels
available in the allowed band, up to two in each level. Those electrons further down in energy are more
tightly bound and are called innermost electrons. When all the electrons are placed in the lowest energy
state, we are left with two possible outcomes. In the first case, the highest level to be filled is
somewhere in the middle of a band. In the second case, the electrons just fill one or more bands 
completely. We assume that the material is at low enough temperature to prevent electrons from jumping
to higher energy levels due to thermal effects.

Now if we add some energy to the free electrons by applying an electric field (attach a voltage source),
for example, the electrons in the lower energy levels cannot accept that energy, because they cannot move
into an already filled higher energy level. The only electrons that can accept energy are those that lie
in the top levels, and then only if there are nearby empty levels into which they can move. Materials 
with electrons in only partly filled bands are conductors. When the top layer of their electrons moves 
freely into the empty energy levels immediately above, there is a current. The electrons that jump from a
lower level to a higher level are said to be excited. The valance band is an allowed occupied band. The
conduction band is an allowed empty band. The energy- band structure for conductors is shown in 
Image2.PNG(a) and Image2.PNG(c).

If the highest- energy electrons of a material fill a band completely, then a small electric field will 
not give these electrons enough energy to jump the large energy gap to the bottom of the next (empty) band.
We then have an insulator, see Image2(b). An example of a good insulator is diamond, whose energy gap is 6 eV

In semiconductors, the highest- energy electrons fill a band (the valance band) at T = 0, as in insulators.
However, unlike insulators, semiconductors have a small energy gap between that band and the next, the 
conduction band. Because the energy gap is so small, a modest electric field (or finite temperature) will 
allow electrons to jump the gap and thereby conduct electricity. Thus, there is a minimum electric field 
under the influence of which a material changes from insulator to conductor. Silicon and germanium have 
energy gaps of 1.1 eV and 0.7 eV, respectively, and are semiconductors. 

For semiconductors, an increase in temperature will give a fraction of the electrons enough thermal energy to
jump the gap. For an ordinary conductor, a rise in temperature increases the resistivity, because the atoms,
which are obstacles to electron flow, vibrate more vigorously. A temperature increase in a semiconductor 
allows more electrons into the empty band and thus lowers the resistivity.

When an electron in the valance band of a semiconductor crosses the energy gap and conducts electricity, it 
leaves behind what is known as a hole. Other electrons in the valence band near the top of the stack of energy
levels can move into this hole, leaving behind their own holes, in which still other electrons can move, and 
so forth. The hole behaves like a positive charge that conducts electricity on its own as a positive charge 
carrier. An electron excited from the valence band to the conduction band is thus doubly effective at 
conducting electricity in semiconductors. (I think the application of this is DIODE)

Besides the intrinsic elemental semiconductors, such as silicon and germanium, there are hybrid compounds—
compounds such as gallium arsenide. Other semiconductors are made by introducing impurities into a silicon 
lattice. For example, an atom in the chemical group of phosphorous, arsenic, and antimony can replace one of
the silicon atoms in a lattice without affecting the lattice itself too much. However, each of these 
impurities has one more electron in its valence level than the silicon atom has; this extra electron, for 
which there is no room in the valence band, takes a place in the conduction band and can conduct electricity.
A semiconductor with impurities of this sort is called an n-type semiconductor, and the extra electrons are
called donor electrons.

Atoms of elements in the same chemical group as boron, aluminum, and gallium have one less valence electron 
than silicon has. If an atom is added to a lattice of silicon as an impurity, there is one less electron than
is needed to form a bond that holds the lattice together. This electron must be provided by the electrons of 
the valence band of the lattice material, and holes are created in this band. These holes act as positive 
charge carriers. The impurity atoms are called acceptors. A semiconductor with such impurities is called a 
p-type semiconductor. 
We will see later on how n- type and p- type semiconductors are used for making one- way gates for current flow
(diodes) and voltage- controlled current switches (transistors)