Like Thevenin’s theorem, it takes a complex two- terminal network and replaces it with a simple 
equivalent circuit. However, instead of a Thevenin voltage source in series with a Thevenin
resistance, the Norton equivalent circuit consists of a current source in parallel with a
resistance—which happens to be the same as the Thevenin resistance. In essence, Norton’s theorem 
is to current sources as Thevenin’s theorem is to voltage sources. Its underlying mechanism, 
like that of Thevenin’s, is the superposition theorem. You can verify your calculation using 
superposition theorem when you do your Norton calculation. 

A Norton equivalent circuit can be transformed into a Thevenin equivalent circuit and vice versa.
The equivalent resistor stays the same in both cases; it is placed in series with the voltage
source in the case of a Thevenin equivalent circuit and in parallel with the current source in
the case of the Norton equivalent circuit. 

The voltage for a Thevenin equivalent source is equal to the nonload voltage appearing across the
resistor in the Norton equivalent circuit. The current for a Norton equivalent source is equal to
the short- circuit current provided by the Thevenin source.

(If you don't understand by the words in the last paragraph, let met clear it for you. First look 
at the Image1.PNG in the left part of the section of Northon Equivalent Circuit. Multiply the Rthev
and the Inorthon, you'll get a Thevenin voltage with no load. This voltage is the Thevenin voltage
in the Thevenin circuit. Now for the equivalent current, look at the Image1.PNG at the section 2.19
Thevenin Theorem, then look at the second part of the image. Divide the Rthev with Vthev and you find
that the short-circuit of the Northon has the exact same result)

If you want to do Northon Calculation Theorem, here the tips:
(1) Remove the resistor and mark out the terminals
(2) Find the short-circuit current (Inorthon) using KVL
(3) Deactivate all independent sources and find Rnorthon
(4) Produce the Northon's Equivalent Circuit by reconnecting the resistor
(5) Find the current that through the resistor.