In 1826, Georg Simon Ohm published experimental results regarding the resistance of
different materials, using a qualitative approach that wasn’t concerned with the 
hidden mechanisms, but rather considered only the net observable effects. He found
a linear relationship between how much current flowed through a material when a given
voltage was applied across it. He defined the resistance to be the ratio of the 
applied voltage divided by the resultant current flow, given by:

        R ≡ V / I

This statement is called Ohm’s law, where R is the resistance, given in volts per
ampere or ohms (abbreviated with the Greek symbol omega, Ω). One ohm is the resistance
through which a current of 1 A flows when a voltage of 1 V is applied:

        1Ω = 1 V / 1 A

The symbol of resistor __⋀  /\  /\   /\  ___
                          ⧹⧸ ⧹⧸  ⧹⧸  ⧹⧸


Now, Ohm’s law isn’t really a law, but rather an empirical(berdasarkan pengalaman) 
statement about the behavior of materials. In fact, there are some materials for which
Ohm’s law actually doesn’t work. (Image1.png)

Ohm’s law can be applied only to ohmic materials—materials whose resistance remains 
constant over a range of voltages. Nonohmic materials, on the other hand, do not follow
this pattern; they do not obey Ohm’s law. For example, a diode is a device that allows 
current to pass easily when the voltage is positive, but prevents current flow (creates a
high resistance) when the voltage is negative.

Usually you see Ohm’s law written in the following form:
        
        V = I × R

However, in this form it is tempting to define voltage in terms of resistance and current.
It is important to realize that R is the resistance of an ohmic material and is independent
of V in Ohm’s law. In fact, Ohm’s law does not say anything about voltage; rather, it defines
resistance in terms of it and cannot be applied to other areas of physics such as static 
electricity, because there is no current flow. In other words, you don’t define voltage in terms
of current and resistance; you define resistance in terms of voltage and current. That’s not to
say that you can’t apply Ohm’s law to, say, predict what voltage must exist across a known 
resistance, given a measured current. In fact, this is done all the time in circuit analysis.
