Say that you are given a complex circuit such as that shown in Image1.PNG. Pretend that you are only interested in
figuring out what the voltage will be across terminals A and F (or any other set of terminals, for that matter) and
what amount of current  will flow through a load resistor attached between these terminals. If you were to apply 
Kirchhoff’s laws to this problem, you would be in trouble—the amount of work required to set up the equations would
be a nightmare, and then after that you would be left with a nasty system of equations to solve

Luckily, a man by the name of Thevenin came up with a theorem, or trick, to simplify the problem and produce an 
answer—one that does not involve “hairy” mathematics. Using what Thevenin discovered, if only two terminals are of
interest, these two terminals can be extracted from the complex circuit, and the rest of the circuit can be 
considered a black box. By applying Thevenin’s tricks (which you will see in a moment), you will discover that this
black box, or any linear two- terminal dc network, can be represented by a voltage source in series with a resistor.
(This statement is referred to as Thevenin’s theorem.) The voltage source is called the Thevenin voltage Vthev, and
the resistance is called the Thevenin resistance Rthev; together, the two form what is called the Thevenin 
equivalent circuit

Note that circuit terminals (black box terminals) might actually not be present in a circuit. For example, instead,
you may want to find the current and voltage across a resistor (Rload) that is already within a complex network. In
this case, you must remove the resistor and create two terminals (making a black box) and then find the Thevenin
equivalent circuit. After the Thevenin equivalent circuit is found, you simply replace the resistor (or place it 
across the terminals of the Thevenin equivalent circuit), calculate the voltage across it, and calculate the current
through it by applying Ohm’s law again: I = Vthev/(Rthev + Rload). 

First, Vthev is simply the voltage across the terminals of the black box, which can be either measured or calculated.
Rthev is the resistance across the terminals of the black box when all the dc sources (e.g., batteries) are replaced
with shorts, and it, too, can be measured or calculated. If you don't get it with the second statements, go check your 
tab notes inside the thevenin theorem in "Confused Statement 1". 

As for the tricks, we can generalize and say that the superposition theorem is involved. However, Thevenin figured out,
using the tricks presented in the following example, that the labor involved with applying the superposition theorem 
(removing sources one at a time, calculating partial currents, and adding them, etc.) could be reduced by removing all
sources at once, and finding the Thevenin resistance. An example is the best cure. See Image2.PNG. 

            R₃                  2000 Ω               2000 Ω
    V₃ = ―――――――――― . Vthev = ―――――――――――――― . 8V = ―――――――― = 5,7 V
         R₃ + Rthev           2000 Ω + 800 Ω         2800 Ω

If you wonder why the this calculation is like the above one, go look the Image2.PNG and analized the Thevenin Equivalent
Circuit.

            Vthev         8 V
    I₃ = ――――――――――― = ――――――――――― = 0,003 A
         R₃ + Rthev     2800 Ω

Also there's procedure where you can help you to find Vthev and Rthev:
(1) Remove the resistor and mark the terminals 
(2) Find the open circuit voltage (Vthev) using KVL (Kirchhoff’s Voltage Law)
(3) Deactivate all independent sources and find Rthev
(4) Produce the Thevenin's equivalent circuit by reconnecting the load 

as the book says "As for the tricks, we can generalize and say that the superposition theorem is
involved." from this we get conclusion if you want to verify your answer, then use the superposition theorem
first and then look at the current you're looking for. for example, if you want to know the current in a 
specified resistor in Thevenin Theorem, go check the same current in your superposition theorem calculation also.