To get a larger voltage capable of supplying more power, we can place two batteries in 
series (end to end), as shown in Image1.png.
In essence, we have placed two charge pumps in series, increasing the effective electrical
pressure. Chemically speaking, if the batteries are of the same voltage, we double the number
of chemical reactions, doubling the number of electrons that can be pumped out into the circuit.

In Image1.png, we use the notion of a ground reference, or 0- V reference, symbolized     |.
                                                                                        -----
                                                                                         ---
                                                                                          -

Though this symbol is used to represent an earth ground (which we define a bit later), it can 
also be used to indicate the point where all voltage measurements are to be referenced within 
a circuit. 

For most dc circuits, the ground reference point is usually placed at the negative terminal of
the voltage source. With the notion of ground reference point, we also get the notion of a point
voltage, which is the voltage measured between the ground reference and a specific point of 
interest within the circuit. For example, the single battery shown in Image1.png has a voltage 
of 1.5 V. We place a ground reference at the negative terminal and give this a 0- V point voltage,
and place a 1.5- V point voltage marker at the positive terminal.

In the center of Image1.png, we have two 1.5- V batteries in series, giving a combined voltage of 
3.0 V. A ground placed at the negative terminal of the lower battery gives us point voltages of 
1.5 V between the batteries, and 3.0 V at the positive terminal of the top battery. A load placed
between ground and 3.0 V will result in a load current that returns to the lower battery’s negative
terminal. Finally, it is possible to create a split supply by simply repositioning the 0- V ground
reference, placing it between the batteries. This creates +1.5 V and −1.5 V leads relative to the 
0- V reference. Many circuits require both positive and negative voltage relative to a 0- V ground 
reference. In this case, the 0- V ground reference acts as a common return. This is often necessary,
say, in an audio circuit, where signals are sinusoidal and alternate between positive and negative
voltage relative to a 0- V reference.