In terms of metals, heat transfer is a result of both lattice vibration effects (as seen in nonmetals)
as well as kinetic energy transfer due to mobile free electrons. Recall that free electrons within a
metal are moving quite fast (∼10⁶ m/s for most metals) at room temperature. Though quantum mechanics 
is required, it is possible to treat these electrons like a dense gas, capable of increasing its 
overall energy as heat is added, and likewise, capable of transporting this energy to regions of the 
metal that are lower in temperature. Notice, however, that an increase in metal temperature, as a 
whole, also increases the electrical resistance—the drift velocity component of the free electron goes
down, due to both increased lattice vibrations and an increase in thermal velocity component. It 
becomes harder to influence the free electrons with an applied field. Metals are the best thermal 
conductors, due in part to the additional free electrons.

The energy an object has at temperature T is correlated (berhubungan) to the internal energy—a result 
of its internal atomic/molecular/electron motions. According to the first law of thermodynamics, which
is a statement about the conservation of energy, the change in internal energy of a system ∆U is equal
to the heat Qₕ  added to the system and the work W done by the system: 
        
        ∆U = Qₕ − W

If we assume that no work is done (energy transferred to, say, move a piston, in the case of a gas), we
say ∆U = QH. With this assumption, we can take heat to be not a measure of internal energy of the system,
but a change in internal energy. The main reason for this concept is that it is very difficult to 
determine the actual internal energy of a system; changes in internal energy are more meaningful and
measurable. In practice, what is most useful is the rate of heat transfer—the power loss due to heating.
With the help of experimental data, the following formula can be used to determine how well certain 
materials transfer heat:

                dQₕ 
        Pₕₑₐₜ = ―――――― = -k∇T
                dt 

Here, k is called the thermal conductivity (measured in W/m °C) of the material in question, and ∇T is 
the temperature gradient:

            ⎛   ∂       ∂      ∂   ⎞
        ∇T =⎜i ――― + j ――― + k ―――  ⎜
            ⎝   ∂t     ∂t      ∂t  ⎠

Now, the gradient is probably scary to a lot of you—it is simply a way to represent temperature distributions
in 3-D, with time. To keep things simple, we will stick to 2-D, and represent the gradient as acting through
an area A through a thickness L, and assume steady- state conditions:

                   AΔT
        Pₕₑₐₜ = -k ――――――
                    L

where ∆T = Thot − Tcold, measured at points across the length L of the material. The material may be steel, 
silicon, copper, PC board material, and so on. Thermal_influence.PNG shows a picture of the situation.

