AC circuit is a complete conductive path through which electrons flow from source to load and back to source.
If the source is dc, electrons will flow in only one direction, resulting in a direct current (dc). Another
type of source that is frequently used in electronics is an alternating source that causes current to 
periodically change direction, resulting in an alternating current (ac). In an ac circuit, not only does the
current change directions periodically, the voltage also periodically reverses. Image1.PNG shows a dc 
circuit and an ac circuit.

The positive and negative swings(naik turun) in voltage/current relative to a zero volt/amp reference line 
simply imply that the electromotive force of the source has switched directions, causing the polarity of the
voltage source to flip, and forcing current to change directions. 

GENERATING AC
The most common way to generate sinusoidal waveforms is by electromagnetic induction, by means of an ac 
generator (or alternator). For example, the simple ac generator in Image2.PNG consists of a loop of wire that
is mechanically rotated about an axis while positioned between the north and south poles of a magnet. As the
loop rotates in the magnetic field, the magnetic flux through it changes, and charges are forced through the
wire, giving rise to an effective voltage or induced voltage. According to Image2.PNG, the magnetic flux
through the loop is a function of the angle of the loop relative to the direction of the magnetic field.

Real ac generators are, of course, more complex than this, but they operate under the same laws of induction,
nevertheless. Other ways of generating ac include using a transducer (e.g., a microphone) or even using a dc-
powered oscillator circuit that uses special inductive and capacitive effects to cause current to resonate
back and forth between an inductor and a capacitor.

WHY IS AC IMPORTANT?
1. the ease of converting circular mechanical motion into induced current via an ac generator. 
2. the ability to increase voltage or decrease voltage (at the expense of current) by using a transformer.

In dc, a transformer is useless, and increasing or decreasing a voltage is a bit tricky, usually involving
some resistive power losses. Transformers are very efficient, on the other hand, and little power is lost in
the voltage conversion. 

WATER ANALOGY OF AC (Image3.PNG)
The analogy uses an oscillating piston pump that moves up and down by means of a cam mechanism, driven by a
hand crank.

In the water analogy, water particles, on average, appear to simply swish back and forth as the crank is 
turned. In an ac electrical circuit, a similar effect occurs, though things are a bit more complex. One way
to envision what’s going on is that within a conductor, the drift velocity of the sea of electrons is being
swished back and forth in a sinusoidal manner. The actual drift velocity and distance over which the average
drift occurs are really quite small (fractions of millimeter- per- second range, depending on conductor and
applied voltage). In theory, this means that there is no net change in position of an “average” electron over
one complete cycle. (This is not to be confused with an individual electron’s thermal velocity, which is
mostly random, and at high velocity.) 

PULSATING DC
If current and voltage never change direction within a circuit, then from one perspective, we have a dc
current, even if the level of the dc constantly changes. For example, in Image4.PNG, the current is always
positive with respect to 0, though it varies periodically in amplitude. Whatever the shape of the variations,
the current can be referred to as “pulsating dc.” If the current periodically reaches 0, it is referred to as
“intermittent(berselang/berputus - putus) dc.” 

From another perspective, we may look at intermittent and pulsating dc as a combination of an ac and a dc 
current. Special circuits can separate the two currents into ac and dc components for separate analysis or
use. There are also circuits that combine ac and dc currents and voltages.


COMBINING SINUSOIDAL SOURCES
Besides combining ac and dc voltages and currents, we can also combine separate ac voltages and currents. 
Such combinations will result in complex waveforms. Image5.PNG shows two ac waveforms fairly close in 
frequency, and their resultant combination. 

Image5.PNG: (Left) Two ac waveforms of similar magnitude and close in frequency form a composite wave. Note
the points where the positive peaks of the two waves combine to create high composite peaks: this is the
phenomenon of beats. The beat note frequency is f2 − f1 = 500 Hz. (Right) Two ac waveforms of widely different
frequencies and amplitudes form a composite wave in which one wave appears to ride upon the other.

AC WAVEFORMS
Alternating current can take on many other useful wave shapes besides sinusoidal.Image6.PNG shows a few common
waveforms used in electronics. The squarewave is vital to digital electronics, where states are either true 
(on) or false (off). Triangular and ramp waveforms—sometimes called sawtooth waves—are especially useful in
timing circuits. 

In the laboratory, a function generator is a handy device that can be used to generate a wide variety of 
waveforms with varying amplitudes and frequencies.

DESCRIBING THE AC WAVEFORMS
A complete description of an ac voltage or current involves reference to three properties: amplitude (or
magnitude), frequency, and phase.
    
    1. AMPLITUDE
    Image7.PNG demonstrates the relationship of the voltage (or current) to relative positions of a circular 
    rotation through one complete revolution of 360°. The magnitude of the voltage (or current) varies with the
    sine of the angle made by the circular movement with respect to the zero point. The sine of 90° is 1, which
    is the point of maximum current (or voltage); the sine of 270° is −1, which is the point of maximum reverse
    current (or voltage); the sine of 45° is 0.707, and the value of current (or voltage) at the 45° point of
    rotation is 0.707 times the maximum current (or voltage).

    2. FREQUENCY / PERIOD
    A sinusoidal waveform generated by a continuously rotating generator will generate alternating current (or
    voltage) that will pass through many cycles over time. frequency expresses the rate at which current (or
    voltage) cycles occur. The unit of frequency is cycles per second, or hertz—abbreviated Hz (after Heinrich 
    Hertz). Go look for Image8.PNG if you confused the differences between period and frequency.

    The length of any cycle in units of time is the period of the cycle, as measured from two equivalent points
    on succeeding cycles. Mathematically, the period is simply the inverse of the frequency:

            1                   1
        ⨏ = ―       and     T = ―
            T                   ⨏

    Example: What is the period of 60 Hz ? 

              1
        T = ――――  = 0.0617 seconds (One succed cycle is 0.0617 seconds)
             60
    
    Example: What is the frequency of an ac voltage that has period of 2 ns? 
                1
        ⨏ = ―――――――――― = 5.0 x 10⁸ Hz = 500 Mhz (There's 500 Milion cycle occur in one second)
            2 x 10⁻⁹ s
    
    3. PHASE
    When graphing a sine wave of voltage or current, the horizontal axis represents time. Events to the right on
    the graph take place later, while events to the left occur earlier. A conventional starting point for counting
    in degrees is 0°—the zero point as the voltage or current begins a positive half cycle. See Image9.PNG 2.85a.

    By measuring the ac cycle this way, it is possible to do calculations and record measurements in a way that is
    independent of frequency. The positive peak voltage or current occurs at 90° during a cycle. In other words, 
    90° represents the phase of the ac peak relative to the 0° starting point.

    Image9.PNG 2.85b Since waveform B crosses the zero point in the positive direction after A has already done so,
    there is a phase difference between the two waveforms. In this case, B lags A by 45°; alternatively, we can say
    that A leads B by 45°.

    In Image9.PNg 2.85c we have a special case where B lags A by 90°. B’s cycle begins exactly one- quarter cycle
    after A’s. As one waveform passes through zero, the other just reaches its maximum value.

    Another special case occurs in Fig. 2.85d, where waveforms A and B are 180° out of phase. Here it doesn’t matter
    which waveform is considered the leading or lagging waveform. Waveform B is always positive when waveform A is
    negative, and vice versa. If you combine these two equal voltage or current waveforms together within the same
    circuit, they completely cancel each other out.

    After you read the last paragraph now you understand the text (If A and B occur in the same circuit Image9.PNG 
    2.85b, they add together, producing a composite sinusoidal waveform at an intermediate phase angle relative to 
    the individual waveforms. Interestingly, adding any number of sine waves of the same frequency will always 
    produce a sine wave of the same frequency—though the magnitude and phase may be unique.)

    