(sources: khanacademy.org)
atoms might be connected by strong bonds and organized into molecules or crystals. Or they might
form temporary, weak bonds with other atoms that they bump into or brush up against. Both the 
strong bonds that hold molecules together and the weaker bonds that create temporary connections
are essential to the chemistry of our bodies, and to the existence of life itself. 
Why form chemical bonds? The basic answer is that atoms are trying to reach the most stable 
(lowest-energy) state that they can. Many atoms become stable when their valence shell is filled
with electrons or when they satisfy the octet rule (by having eight valence electrons). If atoms
don’t have this arrangement, they’ll “want” to reach it by gaining, losing, or sharing electrons via bonds.

*brush up = bersentuhan

how the energy band formed? **IMPORTANT**

we start from what happens when atoms bond each other?
(answer):
In short atoms bond to each other because there is an electrostatic attraction between the two atoms. When
the atoms get close enough, electrons/electron density begins to transfer between the two atoms which 
creates a region of high electron density between the two atoms. This region of high electron density 
between the two atoms is known as a chemical bond.
The essence of the electrostatic force is that particles of the opposite charge attract each other, while 
particles of the same charge repulse each other. What does this have to do with an atom? Well an atom 
consists of a negatively charged particle (electron) and a positively charged particle (proton).
Now what happens when two atoms get close to each other? Well based on the rules of electrostatics shown 
above we can say that the proton of one atom will repulse the proton of the other atom. Likewise the 
electrons of one atom will repulse the electrons from the other atom. Finally the electrons from one atom 
will be attracted to the proton of the other atom. (attractive_repulsive.webp)
This results in a balancing act, when the atoms are far apart the attractive force between the atoms dominate 
and the atoms will start to come together. However if the atoms get too close the repulsive force starts to
become greater than the attractive force and the atoms will start to repulse each other. In between these 
distances there is a Goldilocks distance where the forces are balanced and the energy of the two atoms are at
a minimum (see potential_energy_internuclear_distance.webp)
The balancing act between the forces still occurs so that the atoms will be attracted to each other until they
reach a Goldilocks distance. The one thing to note though is that when the atoms get close enough depending on
the balance of forces between the electron cloud and the other nucleus some of the electron cloud will extend
to the other nucleus (orbital_atom.webp)

Why does a continuous energy band in solids split in two parts, i.e., valence bands and conduction bands?

In solid-state physics, the splitting of the continuous energy band into valence and conduction bands is a 
result of the formation of the crystal lattice in solids. When atoms come together to form a solid, their 
electron orbitals overlap and interact, leading to the creation of energy bands. The valence band is formed 
from the outermost electron orbitals of the atoms, and it is filled with electrons that are tightly bound to 
the atoms. The conduction band, on the other hand, is formed from the higher energy electron orbitals, and it 
allows electrons to move freely through the solid, conducting electricity. The split into valence and conduction
bands occurs due to the energy difference between the outermost (valence) and higher energy (conduction) 
electron orbitals in the crystal lattice. This split is a fundamental concept in understanding the electrical and
optical properties of solids.

So, what happens when you try to shove a large number ( >10²³) atoms together to make a solid? When atoms are 
separated, electrons will tend to occupy the lowest available discrete energy states. When atoms are brought 
together, the electrons are forbidden by the Pauli exclusion principle of having identical energy and quantum numbers.
As shown in the figure below, as the atoms are brought closer and closer together individual allowed energy states
start to spread in energy. (atoms_form_band_energy2.PNG)
When you bring ~10²³ atoms together to make a solid, the separation between the allowed energy states becomes 
indistinguishable (too small for us to measure). Since we can no longer distinguish the individual states, the allowable
energy states form a range of energies that electrons can occupy. The ranges of allowable energies are referred to as
bands. These bands are shown in the figure below. In this figure allowable energy levels are plotted versus interatomic
separation. However, since there are too many levels to distinguish the band splitting is represented by a shaded region,
instead of the individual levels shown in the previous figure.(energy_band.png)

the basic of the curve in energy band lie at the animation on potential_energy_internuclear_distance.webp. when you have 1
energy level, you can look at the animation of how electron occupy the lowest energy level when it distance is reduced. now
when you have bunch of electrons, this energy level are so dense that we can form energy bands from them.

why does the length of a bond between two atoms decrease as the number
of shared electrons increase ?

(answer):
There are Terri ways of thinking about this that I see:
• As they share more electrons the amount of energy that is needed to sustain the bond increases.
  To minimize this energy the atoms move closer together. The energy in this kind of bond is like
  a rope. Adding more electrons to the bond is like adding loops to the rope, the distance 
  between the ends of the rope gets shorter the more loops you add.
• The other thing is charge. The atom carrying the most electrons will have a negative charge, the
  other positive. The greater the difference the closer the atoms will be pulled together. In an 
  ionic bond this transfer is relatively permanent. In a covalent bond the electrons are shared but
  they don't just hang out in the middle, they move. So for periods of time one atom will have a
  negative charge while the other is positive, even if the average is no charge because as the 
  electrons move the charges will flip. Maybe a physicist will be able to give a more detailed answer
  but as a material scientist these have helped and have been fine for what I need.

*sustain = mempertahankan
*loop = simpulan / ikatan

What happens if the distance between two atoms increases and the number of bonds decreases in a molecule?
(answer):
When the distance between two atoms in a molecule increases, the bond between them becomes weaker and the
energy required to break the bond increases. This is due to a decrease in the attractive forces between
the nuclei of the atoms and the electrons in the bond. A decrease in the number of bonds between two atoms
in a molecule also weakens the overall strength of the molecule, making it more reactive and less stable.
These changes can affect the properties and behavior of the molecule, such as its reactivity, melting point,
and boiling point.