An ideal voltage source is a two- terminal device that maintains a fixed voltage across its terminals.
If a variable load is connected to an ideal voltage source, the source will maintain its terminal 
voltage regardless of changes in the load resistance. This means that an ideal voltage source will 
supply as much current as needed to the load in order to keep the terminal voltage fixed (in I = V/R, I
changes with R, but V is fixed).

Now a fishy thing with an ideal voltage source is that if the resistance goes to zero, the current must go
to infinity. Well, in the real world, there is no device that can supply an infinite amount of current. If
you placed a real wire between the terminals of an ideal voltage source, the calculated current would be so
large it would melt the wire. To avoid this theoretical dilemma, we must define a real voltage source (a
battery, plug- in dc power supply, etc.) that can supply only a maximum finite amount of current. A real
voltage source resembles an ideal voltage source with a small series internal resistance or source 
resistance rₛ , which is a result of the imperfect conducting nature of the source (resistance in battery
electrolyte and lead, etc.). This internal resistance tends to reduce the terminal voltage, the magnitude of (reduced voltage)
which depends on its value(internal resistance value) and the amount of current that is drawn from the source (or the size of the load
resistance).

In Image1.PNG, when a real voltage source is open- circuited (no load connected between its terminals), the
terminal voltage (Vₜ) equals the ideal source voltage (Vₛ)— there is no voltage drop across the resistor, since
current can’t pass through it due to an incomplete circuit condition.

However, when a load R_load is attached across the source terminals, R_load and rₛ are connected in series. The
voltage at the terminal can be determined by using the voltage divider relation:

                  R_load
        Vₜ = Vₛ ―――――――――――――
                R_load + rₛ 

From the equation, you can see that when R_load is very large compared to rₛ, (1000 times greater or more), the
effect of rₛ is so small that it may be ignored. However, when R_load is small or closer to rₛ in size, you must
take rₛ into account when doing your calculations and designing circuits. 

(How do you know rₛ ? Imagine that you have circuit with battery 9V and a load of resistor of 1000 Ω. Before you
connect the load, the voltage should be around 9V but when you connect the load with the battery, it should be drop
around 0.40 - 0.50V. say that it's dropped by 0.50V, and the voltage source will be 9 - 0.50 = 8.5V. The voltage 
terminal will be 9V. You get load 1KΩ, using the formula above you'll get rₛ =  55 Ω)

Another symbol used in electronics pertains to dc current sources—see Image1.PNG. An ideal current source provides
the same amount of source current Iₛ at all times to a load, regardless of load resistance changes. This means that
the terminal voltage will change as much as needed as the load resistance changes in order to keep the source 
current constant.

In the real world, current sources have a large internal shunt (parallel) resistance rₛ, as shown in Image1.PNG. This
internal resistance, which is usually very large, tends to reduce the terminal current Iₜ, the magnitude of which
depends on its value and the amount of current that is drawn from the source (or the size of load resistance).

When the source terminals are open- circuited, Iₜ must obviously be zero. However, when we connect a load resistance
R_load across the source terminals, R_load and rₛ form a parallel resistor circuit. Using the current divider 
expression, the terminal current becomes:

                  rₛ 
        Iₜ = Iₛ ――――――――――
                rₛ + R_load

From this equation, you can see that when Rload is small compared to rₛ, the dip in current becomes so small it 
usually can be ignored. However, when Rload is large or closer to rₛ in size, you must take rₛ into account when doing
your calculations.

A practical current source is usually an active circuit made with transistors, as shown in Image2.PNG. Vin drives 
current through R1 into the base of the second transistor, so current flows into the transistor’s collector, through 
it, and out its emitter. This current must flow through R2. If the current gets too high, the first transistor turns
on and robs the second transistor of base current, so its collector current can never exceed the value shown. This is
an excellent way of either making a current source or limiting the available current to a defined maximum value.

from this practical current source we know that if there's a path in which the current can easily take without any
effort, it will go through it and make the other path slightly have a less current. 